## IAC

> Infrastructure as Code is the process of setting up and managing servers, computer systems using code. Instead of manually configuring and managing servers, switches, and other infrastructure components, IaC allows you to use code (scripts or configuration files) to describe the desired state of your infrastructure. These code files can be version-controlled, shared, and reused, making it easier to maintain, collaborate, and deploy changes to your systems.

> When you want to create, update, or delete infrastructure resources, you modify the code files to reflect the changes you want. Then, you use specialized tools or platforms (like Ansible, Terraform, or CloudFormation) to automatically apply those code changes, bringing your infrastructure to the desired state.

> Lets say we are working as a DevOps Engineer at Bell Labs, Bell labs have around 100 applications and they want to deploy these apps on any cloud provider (AWS, AZURE, GCP etc) or on premises. So Bell labs have finally decided to deploy their apps on AWS. So as a devops engineer we have started creating the services such as EC2 instance, S3, RDS etc, Instead of creating manually we decided to automate this task by using aws cli or aws cloudformation templates. We have picked AWS cloudformation for creating resources automatically,. Whenever anyone ask us to create 10 ec2 instances or anything we use cft scripts it will create the resource. we as a developer have written 100's of scripts and everything is going well. But Due to some reason (like costing of AWS, Support issues etc) we want to shift from AWS to Microsoft Azure. So these 100 cft scripts are of no use because cft is an AWS service. So we have to write these scripts again for azure to create any resource. At some point we are not happy with azure then we decided to move to on premises (openstack: used to create your own cloud) then also we have to migrate our scripts, So this approach is not going well in this way you have to have knowledge of azure resource manager and cft as well or if there are more cloud providers you should know their service as well.

> In order to solve this problem, we can use Terraform which is a Infrastructure as code tool. Terraform is developed by Hashicorp. So by using Terraform you dont need to learn 100's of tools or services. Instead of learning so many tools just learn a single tool that is terraform that support all the major cloud providers that means you can create resources just by using terraform on any cloud provider just write terraform scripts, then terraform will take care of automatically creating the resources whether it is for AWS, Azure or any other cloud provider. Just assign the provider as AWS or Azure etc in the terraform script. With terraform we can write automation for any infrastructure this concept is API as code. Terraform will talk to the api of any cloud provider be it AWS, Azure or any other cloud provider
